README.md, before:

# mongodb-rest-relay

Relay mongodb queries over HTTP REST. Great for Edge.

Copyright (c) 2023 by Gadi Cohen. [MIT Licensed](./LICENSE.txt).

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/mongodb-rest-relay) ![GitHub Workflow Status (with event)](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gadicc/mongodb-rest-relay/release.yml) ![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/gadicc/92f2b56335875f380d828a6f0b870fbb/raw/mongodb-rest-relay-coverage-main.json) [![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-%230074c1.svg)](http://www.typescriptlang.org/) [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](./LICENSE)

## Intro

`mongodb-rest-relay` is meant to be a drop-in replacement for `mongodb`, that sends
the actual request to the real `mongodb` elsewhere over HTTP. It may be a better fit
for edge and serverless, depending on your use case. You get the advantages of
MongoDB's own REST service but with the same fixed and predictable pricing (but no
elastic scaling).

## Quick Start

Modify an existing **edge** function (or create one as usual):

```diff
- import { MongoClient } from "mongodb";
+ import { MongoClient } from "mongodb-rest-relay"
```

That's it! Since the API is the same, there's nothing else to do.
Note: only basic functionality / simple CRUD operations are
supported.

You can run the other side of the relay as **serverless**
or servered (near your database):

```js
import { MongoClient } from "mongodb";
import makeExpressRelay from "mongodb-rest-relay/lib/express";

const client = new MongoClient(process.env.MONGO_URL);

export default const handler = makeExpressRelay(client);
```

## Notes

- Supported functionality:
  - `insertOne()`, `insertMany()`
  - `find()` - with `sort()`, `limit()`, `skip()`, `project()`.
  - `updateOne()`, `updateMany()`

Commit message:

chore(readme): mention serverless; delete{One,Many}, PRs [skip ci]

README.md, after:

# mongodb-rest-relay

Relay mongodb queries over HTTP REST. Great for Edge.

Copyright (c) 2023 by Gadi Cohen. [MIT Licensed](./LICENSE.txt).

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/mongodb-rest-relay) ![GitHub Workflow Status (with event)](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gadicc/mongodb-rest-relay/release.yml) ![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/gadicc/92f2b56335875f380d828a6f0b870fbb/raw/mongodb-rest-relay-coverage-main.json) [![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-%230074c1.svg)](http://www.typescriptlang.org/) [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](./LICENSE)

## Intro

`mongodb-rest-relay` is meant to be a drop-in replacement for `mongodb`, that sends
the actual request to the real `mongodb` elsewhere over HTTP. It may be a better fit
for edge and serverless, depending on your use case. You get the advantages of
MongoDB's own REST service but with the same fixed and predictable pricing (but no
elastic scaling).

## Quick Start

Modify an existing **edge** or serverless function (or create one as usual):

```diff
- import { MongoClient } from "mongodb";
+ import { MongoClient } from "mongodb-rest-relay"
```

That's it! Since the API is the same, there's nothing else to do.
Note: only basic functionality / simple CRUD operations are
supported.

You can run the other side of the relay as **serverless**
or servered (near your database):

```js
import { MongoClient } from "mongodb";
import makeExpressRelay from "mongodb-rest-relay/lib/express";

const client = new MongoClient(process.env.MONGO_URL);

export default const handler = makeExpressRelay(client);
```

## Notes

- Supported functionality:

  - `insertOne()`, `insertMany()`
  - `find()` - with `sort()`, `limit()`, `skip()`, `project()`.
  - `updateOne()`, `updateMany()`
  - `deleteOne()`, `deleteMany()`
  - Open an issue or submit a PR for more :)
